README.adoc, before:

= Fusion

image::https://img.shields.io/maven-central/v/io.yupiik.fusion/fusion?color=00b2ef&label=Last%20Release&logoColor=00b2ef&logo=data%3Aimage%2Fpng%3Bbase64%2CiVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAACAAAAAqCAYAAADS4VmSAAAAAXNSR0IArs4c6QAABGdJREFUWEedmF2I3FQUx%2F9nZrYzq7ttMtuK32B90WpFEbtUW2T7UqqbjIgM%2BKQP%2BmAfBUEFP0H7oo%2BiIgg%2BqRUqk%2BwWRXTFj9UWoVIp7UN1H9QitTvJMtpOd3dydDI7k9zk3syd5C25557zO1%2F3I4S8z3xzJzp0MpweBDfioanf86iiPJPCOY7HwlzbzKUr1yQ4XgAgOZdhm4VRHcoLIHrft5ojCqMDiKF%2FGlQkcOfNgecjQowGcKS5ByX6NmUsDrXOe%2FFw9TvdVIwGEDdUNiawn%2F4NDR0%2BP4HKWCtPFPQBXP8EmO9UGonDEf0My7hLJwr6AHEDqjzryCSo9ACEtuM%2FYVevl3rneH8D2LoxptWWugBR2w2r8hGjMBxAaDt6BrbxRmZuHf81gJ%2FXLchsgEbzQRDN6SobyMWhmWdRq86roLMB4ooKVMWs4Q0Uuf4jYP4kfKfONKytxwdjR1vbsL5%2BXgdcDeD6J8G8U6vtukLJ2hDb8hdYxh2yKKgBsorJ9QJwYjMiMKzEZqRRkHKAhrcKwliPmC7ANrYN6A%2Bf2oTKtZelOW1%2FUUK93oml6RKYK%2BE7Yw01c1NyXhpggSto%2BZe0Qh%2FgMQBFFPC%2BlvykMY4Zasch0gBC4RUfx%2BzmDwYT5lem0Ql%2BTBkTWjW4HfbUqVhHvALgRRWgCDDXmkGw%2FpWWN%2BXLE9h%2FdW8z%2BtQzUETUIVkFWSjtw%2BzkQt%2BGCBD3pG2UUKcon43mCRBpbkZYhGXeF9UNj6PiX5Q5FgE4zUWAdmt5n2czEtLEP8Cu3huWeCxX6vVenHwadnWHtAsc7zcAN43iRA9gmAGNftZ05A8A18UBCQtcQstf06JmfhS16kdS7%2FsfHf9ZgA9p6Zs0xkjwngsHUNvyWeTNch0ofKxUpiIRNiO6BzXjp4Fow38OxK9HXZC8YDAfRK36dio1JaOCB0i%2BAiZBjvx1FcbKn8MyxWOZ670MxkviQuR4vwLYnnKG2QeRsfG9A9ssZYY%2Ba9BpXgRoPCVCWOwVoXvhFnDxtFLHsFOQTirS1rfDNpbSS3HD64Agv2JR8VZYm88MKcJ9AH8plWEEqJlFMQVq%2Bq8B3K8Y%2Fga2KY45XrfQ7s6Ea%2F9zBeo3RBud5IIJzPmmePJZ2QUOjuXKf6GzA0FpL8DvqjpJTIG7%2FCq48EIoTPQULOMdwXCyY%2BRU6eO4cDrCDCyzG92eGaUBWeE5%2FlsAH8yMBvMh1KrRqbgvrFhNIwDXOwfGNdJQOZ4PYMtIaWAso2b2LynJHxrHYZvTsQgwwfG7Px16T9f7bi0E3FQbDZ4ECu%2BF490lmuhDpWz%2FIiuJgmQzoiWAox1N1LoK2yyHn5zlJ2IA0dnf9dfArFq0ugeYK%2BOOSgAkfhBcWKYt1osCoC%2Fk%2BsfAvCszbbZJQwCC3bCnojNgXJsqAkmLzsoBIDgqBRkAuP5ZMN88EGqfK6N%2B22omvS5AX8nCUgUtI74IfQ%2Fb3DP8cqqiGBVAoSc%2FQFiIG%2F8K825W%2F%2Bv4D2sg4qMfRFPFAAAAAElFTkSuQmCC[]
image::https://github.com/yupiik/fusion/actions/workflows/maven.yml/badge.svg?branch=master[Github CI]

[abstract]
Fusion framework aims at providing a very light framework.

== Core Values

For cloud applications, being the most reactive possible is a key criteria so Fusion chose to:

* **Be build time oriented**: only delegate to runtime the bean resolution (to enable dynamic module aggregation) and not the bean and model discovery nor proxy generation,
* **Stay flexible**: even if the model is generated at build time you can generally still customize it by removing a bean and adding your own one,
* **Be native friendly**: some applications need to be native to start very fast and bypass the classloading and a bunch of JVM init, for that purpose we ensure the framework is GraalVM friendly - using Apache Geronimo Arthur or not.

== Documentation

See https://www.yupiik.io/fusion for the full documentation.

== Build

Pre-requisite: Maven >= 3.8 and Java >= 17.

== Release

Build and publish to central:

[source, bash]
----
mvn release:prepare release:perform -Pnative -Prelease -Dusername=$GIT_HUB_ACCOUNT -Dpassword=$GIT_HUB_TOKEN
----

Publish documentation on github page:

[source, bash]
----
git checkout -b <release-tag> <release-tag> && mvn clean package -Pgh-pages
----

Pubish release on Github by running in https://github.com/yupiik/yupiik.github.io project:

[source, bash]
----
mvn yupiik-tools:synchronize-github-releases@fusion -Psynchronize-github-releases
----

Commit message:

Add link to examples project

README.adoc, after:

= Fusion

image::https://img.shields.io/maven-central/v/io.yupiik.fusion/fusion?color=00b2ef&label=Last%20Release&logoColor=00b2ef&logo=data%3Aimage%2Fpng%3Bbase64%2CiVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAACAAAAAqCAYAAADS4VmSAAAAAXNSR0IArs4c6QAABGdJREFUWEedmF2I3FQUx%2F9nZrYzq7ttMtuK32B90WpFEbtUW2T7UqqbjIgM%2BKQP%2BmAfBUEFP0H7oo%2BiIgg%2BqRUqk%2BwWRXTFj9UWoVIp7UN1H9QitTvJMtpOd3dydDI7k9zk3syd5C25557zO1%2F3I4S8z3xzJzp0MpweBDfioanf86iiPJPCOY7HwlzbzKUr1yQ4XgAgOZdhm4VRHcoLIHrft5ojCqMDiKF%2FGlQkcOfNgecjQowGcKS5ByX6NmUsDrXOe%2FFw9TvdVIwGEDdUNiawn%2F4NDR0%2BP4HKWCtPFPQBXP8EmO9UGonDEf0My7hLJwr6AHEDqjzryCSo9ACEtuM%2FYVevl3rneH8D2LoxptWWugBR2w2r8hGjMBxAaDt6BrbxRmZuHf81gJ%2FXLchsgEbzQRDN6SobyMWhmWdRq86roLMB4ooKVMWs4Q0Uuf4jYP4kfKfONKytxwdjR1vbsL5%2BXgdcDeD6J8G8U6vtukLJ2hDb8hdYxh2yKKgBsorJ9QJwYjMiMKzEZqRRkHKAhrcKwliPmC7ANrYN6A%2Bf2oTKtZelOW1%2FUUK93oml6RKYK%2BE7Yw01c1NyXhpggSto%2BZe0Qh%2FgMQBFFPC%2BlvykMY4Zasch0gBC4RUfx%2BzmDwYT5lem0Ql%2BTBkTWjW4HfbUqVhHvALgRRWgCDDXmkGw%2FpWWN%2BXLE9h%2FdW8z%2BtQzUETUIVkFWSjtw%2BzkQt%2BGCBD3pG2UUKcon43mCRBpbkZYhGXeF9UNj6PiX5Q5FgE4zUWAdmt5n2czEtLEP8Cu3huWeCxX6vVenHwadnWHtAsc7zcAN43iRA9gmAGNftZ05A8A18UBCQtcQstf06JmfhS16kdS7%2FsfHf9ZgA9p6Zs0xkjwngsHUNvyWeTNch0ofKxUpiIRNiO6BzXjp4Fow38OxK9HXZC8YDAfRK36dio1JaOCB0i%2BAiZBjvx1FcbKn8MyxWOZ670MxkviQuR4vwLYnnKG2QeRsfG9A9ssZYY%2Ba9BpXgRoPCVCWOwVoXvhFnDxtFLHsFOQTirS1rfDNpbSS3HD64Agv2JR8VZYm88MKcJ9AH8plWEEqJlFMQVq%2Bq8B3K8Y%2Fga2KY45XrfQ7s6Ea%2F9zBeo3RBud5IIJzPmmePJZ2QUOjuXKf6GzA0FpL8DvqjpJTIG7%2FCq48EIoTPQULOMdwXCyY%2BRU6eO4cDrCDCyzG92eGaUBWeE5%2FlsAH8yMBvMh1KrRqbgvrFhNIwDXOwfGNdJQOZ4PYMtIaWAso2b2LynJHxrHYZvTsQgwwfG7Px16T9f7bi0E3FQbDZ4ECu%2BF490lmuhDpWz%2FIiuJgmQzoiWAox1N1LoK2yyHn5zlJ2IA0dnf9dfArFq0ugeYK%2BOOSgAkfhBcWKYt1osCoC%2Fk%2BsfAvCszbbZJQwCC3bCnojNgXJsqAkmLzsoBIDgqBRkAuP5ZMN88EGqfK6N%2B22omvS5AX8nCUgUtI74IfQ%2Fb3DP8cqqiGBVAoSc%2FQFiIG%2F8K825W%2F%2Bv4D2sg4qMfRFPFAAAAAElFTkSuQmCC[]
image::https://github.com/yupiik/fusion/actions/workflows/maven.yml/badge.svg?branch=master[Github CI]

[abstract]
Fusion framework aims at providing a very light framework.

== Core Values

For cloud applications, being the most reactive possible is a key criteria so Fusion chose to:

* **Be build time oriented**: only delegate to runtime the bean resolution (to enable dynamic module aggregation) and not the bean and model discovery nor proxy generation,
* **Stay flexible**: even if the model is generated at build time you can generally still customize it by removing a bean and adding your own one,
* **Be native friendly**: some applications need to be native to start very fast and bypass the classloading and a bunch of JVM init, for that purpose we ensure the framework is GraalVM friendly - using Apache Geronimo Arthur or not.

== Documentation

See https://www.yupiik.io/fusion for the full documentation.

== Examples

Some examples projects can be found here https://github.com/yupiik/fusion-examples

== Build

Pre-requisite: Maven >= 3.8 and Java >= 17.

== Release

Build and publish to central:

[source, bash]
----
mvn release:prepare release:perform -Pnative -Prelease -Dusername=$GIT_HUB_ACCOUNT -Dpassword=$GIT_HUB_TOKEN
----

Publish documentation on github page:

[source, bash]
----
git checkout -b <release-tag> <release-tag> && mvn clean package -Pgh-pages
----

Pubish release on Github by running in https://github.com/yupiik/yupiik.github.io project:

[source, bash]
----
mvn yupiik-tools:synchronize-github-releases@fusion -Psynchronize-github-releases
----
