fusion-documentation/src/main/minisite/content/fusion/documentation.adoc, before:

= Documentation

Documentation module provides some tasks you can integrate with Yupiik minisite - or any other living documentation.
It aims at consuming the JSON metadata generated by Fusion to convert it to a documentation content.

== Dependency

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>io.yupiik.fusion</groupId>
  <artifactId>fusion-documentation</artifactId>
  <version>${fusion.version}</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

== JSON-RPC/OpenRPC to Asciidoc

The class `io.yupiik.fusion.documentation.OpenRPC2Adoc` enables to convert the partial OpenRPC metadata (`META-INF/fusion/jsonrpc/openrpc.json`) to Asciidoc format for an easier integration in documentation.

Configuration:

[opts="header",cols="^,^"]
|===
| Name | Description
| input | the location of the input file (json), often it will be `target/classes/META-INF/fusion/jsonrpc/openrpc.json`.
| output | the location of the output file (asciidoc).
|===


== JSON-RPC/OpenRPC to OpenAPI

OpenAPI is the OpenRPC for plain old RESTful API.
However it has some great tooling - SwaggerUI to not cite it.

The class `io.yupiik.fusion.documentation.OpenRPC2OpenAPI` enables to convert the partial OpenRPC metadata (`META-INF/fusion/jsonrpc/openrpc.json`) to OpenAPI format for an easier integration in documentation and in particular SwaggerUI.

Configuration:

[opts="header",cols="^,^"]
|===
| Name | Description
| input | the location of the input file (json), often it will be `target/classes/META-INF/fusion/jsonrpc/openrpc.json`.
| output | the location of the output file (asciidoc).
| *.url | define a server URL, `*` is a prefix used to match the description (you can define multiple servers while prefix is unique).
| *.description | define a server description, `*` is a prefix used to match the url.
| info.* | define `info` block of OpenAPI. Ensure to define `info.title`, `info.version` and `info.description` at least.
|===

To integrate it with SwaggerUI you have to register the SwaggerUI `requestInterceptor` which will convert the request url to the server url (which must be JSON-RPC endpoint) since the converter moves methods as path to comply to OpenAPI model:

[source,javascript]
----
SwaggerUIBundle({
  ...,
  requestInterceptor: function (request) {
    if (request.loadSpec) {
      return request;
    }
    var method = request.url.substring(request.url.lastIndexOf('/') + 1);
    return Object.assign(request, {
      url: spec.servers.filter(function (server) { return request.url.indexOf(server.url) === 0; })[0].url,
      body: JSON.stringify({ jsonrpc: '2.0', method: method, params: JSON.parse(request.body) }, undefined, 2)
    });
  },
});
----

Commit message:

[living documentation] enable to generate a postman collection from openrpc meta

fusion-documentation/src/main/minisite/content/fusion/documentation.adoc, after:

= Documentation

Documentation module provides some tasks you can integrate with Yupiik minisite - or any other living documentation.
It aims at consuming the JSON metadata generated by Fusion to convert it to a documentation content.

== Dependency

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>io.yupiik.fusion</groupId>
  <artifactId>fusion-documentation</artifactId>
  <version>${fusion.version}</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

== JSON-RPC/OpenRPC to Asciidoc

The class `io.yupiik.fusion.documentation.OpenRPC2Adoc` enables to convert the partial OpenRPC metadata (`META-INF/fusion/jsonrpc/openrpc.json`) to Asciidoc format for an easier integration in documentation.

Configuration:

[opts="header",cols="^,^"]
|===
| Name | Description
| input | the location of the input file (json), often it will be `target/classes/META-INF/fusion/jsonrpc/openrpc.json`.
| output | the location of the output file (asciidoc).
|===


== JSON-RPC/OpenRPC to OpenAPI

OpenAPI is the OpenRPC for plain old RESTful API.
However it has some great tooling - SwaggerUI to not cite it.

The class `io.yupiik.fusion.documentation.OpenRPC2OpenAPI` enables to convert the partial OpenRPC metadata (`META-INF/fusion/jsonrpc/openrpc.json`) to OpenAPI format for an easier integration in documentation and in particular SwaggerUI.

Configuration:

[opts="header",cols="^,^"]
|===
| Name | Description
| input | the location of the input file (json), often it will be `target/classes/META-INF/fusion/jsonrpc/openrpc.json`.
| output | the location of the output file (json).
| *.url | define a server URL, `*` is a prefix used to match the description (you can define multiple servers while prefix is unique).
| *.description | define a server description, `*` is a prefix used to match the url.
| info.* | define `info` block of OpenAPI. Ensure to define `info.title`, `info.version` and `info.description` at least.
|===

To integrate it with SwaggerUI you have to register the SwaggerUI `requestInterceptor` which will convert the request url to the server url (which must be JSON-RPC endpoint) since the converter moves methods as path to comply to OpenAPI model:

[source,javascript]
----
SwaggerUIBundle({
  ...,
  requestInterceptor: function (request) {
    if (request.loadSpec) {
      return request;
    }
    var method = request.url.substring(request.url.lastIndexOf('/') + 1);
    return Object.assign(request, {
      url: spec.servers.filter(function (server) { return request.url.indexOf(server.url) === 0; })[0].url,
      body: JSON.stringify({ jsonrpc: '2.0', method: method, params: JSON.parse(request.body) }, undefined, 2)
    });
  },
});
----

== JSON-RPC/OpenRPC to Postman

The class `io.yupiik.fusion.documentation.OpenRPC2Postman` enables to convert the partial OpenRPC metadata (`META-INF/fusion/jsonrpc/openrpc.json`) to a Postman collection.

Configuration:

[opts="header",cols="^,^"]
|===
| Name | Description
| input | the location of the input file (json), often it will be `target/classes/META-INF/fusion/jsonrpc/openrpc.json`.
| output | the location of the output file (json).
| info.* | define `info` block of collection. Ensure to define `info.title`, `info.version`.
| server.url | define a server URL to use.
|===
