fusion-documentation/src/main/minisite/content/fusion/handlebars.adoc, before:

= Fusion Handlebars

[abstract]
Fusion handlebars provides a light link:https://handlebarsjs.com/[handlebars] templating support.

== Dependency

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>io.yupiik.fusion</groupId>
  <artifactId>fusion-handlebars</artifactId>
  <version>${fusion.version}</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

== Usage

It starts from `HandlebarsCompiler` (available as a fusion bean) which compiles a template + its helpers and partials as a `Template` which supports to render the template.

Data can be map of primitives (or data which have a `toString()`) or lists for now.

[source,java]
----
// once per app
final var compiler = new HandlebarsCompiler();
final var tpl = compiler.compile(new CompilationContext(
        "{{firstname}} {{uppercase lastname}}",
        Map.of( // some helpers - can be Map.of() if you don't use them
                "uppercase", o -> o.toString().toUpperCase(ROOT)),
        Map.of( // some partials templates - can be Map.of() if you don't use them
                "person", "{{person.name}} is {{person.age}} years old.")));

// at runtime
final var rendering = tpl.render(Map.of()));
----

== Future

Technically it is possible to go further but it has to be proven useful, here are some ideas:

. Support records (potentially POJO but immutability would be a plus) as model,
. Support `CompletionStage` as model - requires to return a `CompletionStage<String>` instead but generally we can always await the model is available before the rendering and making helpers promise friendly has other drawbacks,
. Support to precompile the template at build time, this can use an API like `public interface MyTemplates { @HandleBars(template = "myresource.handlebars") String myResource(MyRecordDataOrMap data); }` and fusion processor would generate an implementation of this type which would be a bean.
This option requires to override most of `*Part` implementations but is very feasible,
. Support more `this` cases, right now a few cases don't support `this` keyword,
. Support `lookup`, this is built-in in handlebars but has the drawback to rely on lookup at runtimes, maybe something to not add,
. Support streaming? If the output can be huge - assuming we support later `Iterable` or `Stream` for example - then we can replace the output `String` by a `InputStream` or a `Publisher<ByteBuffer>` for ex.

Commit message:

add basic data-variables support to handlebars

fusion-documentation/src/main/minisite/content/fusion/handlebars.adoc, after:

= Fusion Handlebars

[abstract]
Fusion handlebars provides a light link:https://handlebarsjs.com/[handlebars] templating support.

== Dependency

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>io.yupiik.fusion</groupId>
  <artifactId>fusion-handlebars</artifactId>
  <version>${fusion.version}</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

== Usage

It starts from `HandlebarsCompiler` (available as a fusion bean) which compiles a template + its helpers and partials as a `Template` which supports to render the template.

Data can be map of primitives (or data which have a `toString()`) or lists for now.

[source,java]
----
// once per app
final var compiler = new HandlebarsCompiler();
final var tpl = compiler.compile(new HandlebarsCompiler.CompilationContext(
        new HandlebarsCompiler.Settings()
                .helpers(Map.of( // some helpers - can be Map.of() if you don't use them
                    "uppercase", o -> o.toString().toUpperCase(ROOT))
                .partials(Map.of(
                        "person", "{{person.name}} is {{person.age}} years old.")),
        "{{firstname}} {{uppercase lastname}}"));

// at runtime
final var rendering = tpl.render(Map.of(...)));
----

== Each built-in helper data-variables

`{{each xxx}` supports the following data-variables:

* `@first` (boolean): is the current element the first one,
* `@last` (boolean): is the current element the last one,
* `@index` (integer): 0-based index of current element.

If the `xxx` variable is not a `Collection` but a `Map`, the additional `@key` and `@value` data-variables are available.

== Future

Technically it is possible to go further but it has to be proven useful, here are some ideas:

. Support records (potentially POJO but immutability would be a plus) as model,
. Support `CompletionStage` as model - requires to return a `CompletionStage<String>` instead but generally we can always await the model is available before the rendering and making helpers promise friendly has other drawbacks,
. Support to precompile the template at build time, this can use an API like `public interface MyTemplates { @HandleBars(template = "myresource.handlebars") String myResource(MyRecordDataOrMap data); }` and fusion processor would generate an implementation of this type which would be a bean.
This option requires to override most of `*Part` implementations but is very feasible,
. Support more `this` cases, right now a few cases don't support `this` keyword,
. Support `lookup`, this is built-in in handlebars but has the drawback to rely on lookup at runtimes, maybe something to not add,
. Support streaming? If the output can be huge - assuming we support later `Iterable` or `Stream` for example - then we can replace the output `String` by a `InputStream` or a `Publisher<ByteBuffer>` for ex,
. Correct whitespace control (https://handlebarsjs.com/guide/expressions.html#subexpressions),
. Else support (in if blocks),
. ...
